one of the first things you want to do
when you first come to a route stream is
determine whether you have surface
activity or not today I'm not seeing any
surface activity so what I'm going to do
is I'm going to start on the bottom of
the river I'm going to use a nymph which
I have a generic nymph here with a piece
of split shot and way up on the other
end here I have a strike indicator I'm
gonna try to get down to the bottom
that's the beginning now as I see
surface activity begin then I'll change
my rig up to either an emergen is two
currents here it's called the seam you
got fast water meeting slow water and
what that causes is a spot where the
fish will lay where it's almost a void
it doesn't take a whole lot of energy
for the fish to lay there so this is
where I'm going to place my fly along
the scene right along here I'm gonna try
to dead drift it and follow along with
the rod tip it's important to keep the
cash short and lift a line up off the
water follow along with the rod tip the
same speed the indicators traveling on
the surface it's as important to have a
drag free drift when fishing a nymph as
it is when fishing a dry fly I think I
might put a little more weight on here I
don't think I'm quite making it to the
bottom fast enough use the minimum
amount of split shot or wait to get your
fly down too much and you will
continuously hang up on the bottom too
little and you are out of the feeding
zone you must constantly adjust your
weight and rig to match water conditions
this is fundamental when nymph n' if you
don't hang up once in a while you're not
deep enough you need to use minimal
amount of line keep as much off the
water as possible and closely follow its
path downriver continuously mending and
adjusting the drift to ensure your fly
appears natural to the trim
mmm here we go
fish on water visibility is generally
good it varies from clear with a slight
greenish tinge to brownish and turbid
when running high after heavy rainfall
thankfully for anglers if the waters are
high and stained these conditions do not
last long as the system seems to quickly
return to normal within a few days
now what I did folks was I just followed
along with the tip and as soon as the
indicator made a move I set the hook and
we have what's commonly called a bugle
throw it's a sucker you know your fly is
in the right zone if you start catching
species such as suckers suckers will
coexist with trout in the same lies and
they will readily move to an imp if
given the opportunity and he just took
my fly on me well it wasn't the right
species but it's some action it can save
the day sometimes them throw them
suckers there are some basic principles
for an infant which all anglers should
know one of the primary concepts is the
two-two-one rig which states that for
every one foot of water you should have
two feet of line between your fly and
the indicator
thus if you're fishing in four feet of
water the distance between your fly and
the indicator should be at least eight
feet of course these are just guidelines
the key is adapting to conditions as you
fish different stretches don't keep
using the same setup in all situations